---
title: "Alpha_spending_code"
author: "Lathan Liou"
date: "12/16/2020"
output: 
html_document:
  self_contained: no
---



 
<h2>Alpha-spending for online FWER control</h2>  <h3>Description</h3>  <p>Implements online FWER control using a Bonferroni-like test. </p>   <h3>Usage</h3>  <pre> Alpha_spending(   d,   alpha = 0.05,   gammai,   random = TRUE,   date.format = "%Y-%m-%d" ) </pre>   <h3>Arguments</h3>  <table summary="R argblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>d</code></td> <td> <p>Either a vector of p-values, or a dataframe with three columns: an identifier (&lsquo;id&rsquo;), date (&lsquo;date&rsquo;) and p-value (&lsquo;pval&rsquo;). If no column of dates is provided, then the p-values are treated as being ordered sequentially with no batches.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>alpha</code></td> <td> <p>Overall significance level of the FDR procedure, the default is 0.05.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>gammai</code></td> <td> <p>Optional vector of <i>&gamma;_i</i>, where hypothesis <i>i</i> is rejected if the <i>i</i>-th p-value is less than or equal to <i>&alpha; &gamma;_i</i>. A default is provided as proposed by Javanmard and Montanari (2018), equation 31.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>random</code></td> <td> <p>Logical. If <code>TRUE</code> (the default), then the order of the p-values in each batch (i.e. those that have exactly the same date) is randomised.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>date.format</code></td> <td> <p>Optional string giving the format that is used for dates.</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Details</h3>  <p>The function takes as its input either a vector of p-values, or a dataframe with three columns: an identifier (&lsquo;id&rsquo;), date (&lsquo;date&rsquo;) and p-value (&lsquo;pval&rsquo;). The case where p-values arrive in batches corresponds to multiple instances of the same date. If no column of dates is provided, then the p-values are treated as being ordered sequentially with no batches. </p> <p>Alpha-spending provides strong FWER control for a potentially infinite stream of p-values by using a Bonferroni-like test. Given an overall significance level <i>&alpha;</i>, we choose a (potentially infinite) sequence of non-negative numbers <i>&gamma;_i</i> such that they sum to 1. Hypothesis <i>i</i> is rejected if the <i>i</i>-th p-value is less than or equal to <i>&alpha; &gamma;_i</i>. </p> <p>Note that the procedure controls the generalised familywise error rate (k-FWER) for <i>k &gt; 1</i> if <i>&alpha;</i> is replaced by min(<i>1, k&alpha;</i>). </p>   <h3>Value</h3>  <table summary="R valueblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>out</code></td> <td> <p> A dataframe with the original data <code>d</code> (which will be reordered if there are batches and <code>random = TRUE</code>), the adjusted signifcance thresholds <code>alphai</code> and the indicator function of discoveries <code>R</code>, where <code>R[i] = 1</code> corresponds to hypothesis <i>i</i> being rejected (otherwise <code>R[i] = 0</code>).</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>References</h3>  <p>Javanmard, A. and Montanari, A. (2018) Online Rules for Control of False Discovery Rate and False Discovery Exceedance. <em>Annals of Statistics</em>, 46(2):526-554. </p> <p>Tian, J. and Ramdas, A. (2021). Online control of the familywise error rate. <em>Statistical Methods for Medical Research</em> (to appear), <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.04900">https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.04900</a>. </p>   <h3>Examples</h3>  <pre> sample.df &lt;- data.frame( id = c('A15432', 'B90969', 'C18705', 'B49731', 'E99902',     'C38292', 'A30619', 'D46627', 'E29198', 'A41418',     'D51456', 'C88669', 'E03673', 'A63155', 'B66033'), date = as.Date(c(rep('2014-12-01',3),                 rep('2015-09-21',5),                 rep('2016-05-19',2),                 '2016-11-12',                 rep('2017-03-27',4))), pval = c(2.90e-17, 0.06743, 0.01514, 0.08174, 0.00171,         3.60e-05, 0.79149, 0.27201, 0.28295, 7.59e-08,         0.69274, 0.30443, 0.00136, 0.72342, 0.54757))  set.seed(1); Alpha_spending(sample.df)  Alpha_spending(sample.df, random=FALSE)  set.seed(1); Alpha_spending(sample.df, alpha=0.1)   </pre>   </body></html> 
