---
title: "Online_fallback_code"
author: "Lathan Liou"
date: "12/16/2020"
output: 
html_document:
  self_contained: no
---



 
<h2>Online fallback procedure for FWER control</h2>  <h3>Description</h3>  <p>Implements the online fallback procedure of Tian and Ramdas (2021), which guarantees strong FWER control under arbitrary dependence of the p-values. </p>   <h3>Usage</h3>  <pre> online_fallback(   d,   alpha = 0.05,   gammai,   random = TRUE,   display_progress = FALSE,   date.format = "%Y-%m-%d" ) </pre>   <h3>Arguments</h3>  <table summary="R argblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>d</code></td> <td> <p>Either a vector of p-values, or a dataframe with three columns: an identifier (&lsquo;id&rsquo;), date (&lsquo;date&rsquo;) and p-value (&lsquo;pval&rsquo;). If no column of dates is provided, then the p-values are treated as being ordered sequentially with no batches.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>alpha</code></td> <td> <p>Overall significance level of the FDR procedure, the default is 0.05.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>gammai</code></td> <td> <p>Optional vector of <i>&gamma;_i</i>. A default is provided as proposed by Javanmard and Montanari (2018), equation 31.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>random</code></td> <td> <p>Logical. If <code>TRUE</code> (the default), then the order of the p-values in each batch (i.e. those that have exactly the same date) is randomised.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>display_progress</code></td> <td> <p>Logical. If <code>TRUE</code> prints out a progress bar for the algorithm runtime.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>date.format</code></td> <td> <p>Optional string giving the format that is used for dates.</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Details</h3>  <p>The function takes as its input either a vector of p-values or a dataframe with three columns: an identifier (&lsquo;id&rsquo;), date (&lsquo;date&rsquo;) and p-value (&lsquo;pval&rsquo;). The case where p-values arrive in batches corresponds to multiple instances of the same date. If no column of dates is provided, then the p-values are treated as being ordered sequentially with no batches. Given an overall significance level <i>&alpha;</i>, we choose a sequence of non-negative non-increasing numbers <i>&gamma;_i</i> that sum to 1. </p> <p>The online fallback procedure provides a uniformly more powerful method than Alpha-spending, by saving the significance level of a previous rejection. More specifically, the procedure tests hypothesis <i>H_i</i> at level </p> <p style="text-align: center;"><i>&alpha;_i = &alpha; &gamma;_i + R_{i-1} &alpha;_{i-1}</i></p> <p> where <i>R_i = 1\{p_i &le;q &alpha;_i\}</i> denotes a rejected hypothesis. </p> <p>Further details of the online fallback procedure can be found in Tian and Ramdas (2021). </p>   <h3>Value</h3>  <table summary="R valueblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>out</code></td> <td> <p> A dataframe with the original data <code>d</code> (which will be reordered if there are batches and <code>random = TRUE</code>), the LORD-adjusted significance thresholds <i>&alpha;_i</i> and the indicator function of discoveries <code>R</code>. Hypothesis <i>i</i> is rejected if the <i>i</i>-th p-value is less than or equal to <i>&alpha;_i</i>, in which case <code>R[i] = 1</code>  (otherwise <code>R[i] = 0</code>).</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>References</h3>  <p>Tian, J. and Ramdas, A. (2021). Online control of the familywise error rate. <em>Statistical Methods for Medical Research</em> (to appear), <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.04900">https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.04900</a>. </p>   <h3>Examples</h3>  <pre> sample.df &lt;- data.frame( id = c('A15432', 'B90969', 'C18705', 'B49731', 'E99902',     'C38292', 'A30619', 'D46627', 'E29198', 'A41418',     'D51456', 'C88669', 'E03673', 'A63155', 'B66033'), date = as.Date(c(rep('2014-12-01',3),                rep('2015-09-21',5),                 rep('2016-05-19',2),                 '2016-11-12',                rep('2017-03-27',4))), pval = c(2.90e-08, 0.06743, 0.01514, 0.08174, 0.00171,         3.60e-05, 0.79149, 0.27201, 0.28295, 7.59e-08,         0.69274, 0.30443, 0.00136, 0.72342, 0.54757))  online_fallback(sample.df, random=FALSE)  set.seed(1); online_fallback(sample.df)  set.seed(1); online_fallback(sample.df, alpha=0.1)  </pre>   </body></html> 
